so my girlfriend just says like
interesting to me that made me think
about the extent to which we express
veganism in terms of belief as opposed
to anything other than belief you know
but you said your brother regarded you
as Andy I think he criticized you for
being easily manipulated on the grounds
that you had just watched this one
documentary and then become vegan now in
reality you did a bunch of research
the documentary sparked your interest
you decided to go vegan but you know I
think in Western culture belief I mean
you know we're really taught to regard
belief as something hallowed and
profound and that people aren't allowed
to criticize or has to be criticized
this has been a special way given some
kind of special regard and I think many
vegans imagine they're leading with a
strong suit they're playing a strong
card if people ask you why are you vegan
and you answer I believe Blanc I think
that's basically what Gary francais only
does I mean I you know he says I I
believe why and if you don't you're evil
I mean I think it's actually a really
weak way you know to uh to approach
veganism I mean this is what I had one I
had one view or quit my patreon over
this I always say I think there really
are I think there are many competing
definitions of ego so I don't think
there is one definition of ego they with
a lively intellectual discourse
understand because there's more than one
some people I think would define it as
as a belief a belief that Blanc
therefore you do therefore you do Blanc
but you know a lot of the time when I
was talking to professors at UVic or
something I wouldn't start with that
I'd start with something that framed it
in terms of you know I'm doing the best
I can you know I'm trying to do
something positive you know ecology
ethics animals etc but like you know I'm
doing the best I can
what about you you know as a way of
presenting it I you know I can't say
it's more pretentious or less
pretentious but it's it's different you
know
yeah well really if argument is like
testifying you know like let me let me
spread the word of veganism to you like
this is my belief in this yeah I guess I
guess also there's the delusion which is
really encouraged by Western religions
and Gary francais only does believe in
God he believes in a monotheistic teja d
of some kind he's not a conventional
Christian but he's talked about his
eccentric religious beliefs I think
there's a sense that belief is for
everyone and the belief is something
everybody can do and indeed from a
Christian perspective that everybody
ought to do you know so maybe that's why
they imagine like if I if I play the
belief card people are gonna come over
to my side cuz they're gonna share in
the belief they're gonna want to believe
what I believe and it's kind of work is
like the fact that we're having this
conversation already me and the
professor me and the mediator is almost
inevitably means that they don't believe
it and they're they're never gonna
believe it so why you know why even talk
about you know belief as opposed to ie
boat I'm trying to make a difference you
know man
that's a I'm sorry just bit my own
tongue we're just eating on camera sorry
biting my tongue has said you know a lot
a lot of time when I was actually
talking to professors at Victoria what I
said to them was I'm interested in the
difference I can make there are a lot of
situations where I can't make a
difference
Cambodian politics at one time close to
my heart you look at the disaster of any
given set of elections in Cambodia I
can't make a difference you know even if
I write an article on the internet and
even if I make a youtube video it's like
damn I can't make any difference you
know this is a difference I can make and
in general you know politically and
philosophically you know there's so many
headings or even in terms of research
and study I'm interested in the
difference I can make you know that's
how I do research and what have you so I
try to plan for the future of my life
you know and this this is the difference
I could make you know being vegan so
that's there's no belief there and it's
challenging the other person in a
different way because it's saying to
them why don't you care about the
difference you can make or it puts them
on that level it puts them in a position
to answer that question
and they may have a meaningful answer
they may say oh well they're devoted to
you know being in the US Marine Corps so
they just eat whatever food the Marine
Corps gives them and they never question
it there are people who really live in
these kinds of highly structured
situations I got one I got one email
from a vegan very sincere vegan and he
for his job is required to wear leather
boots and he hates it you asked him to
have boots that meet a certain safety
code blah blah blah and he had he really
searched he absolutely couldn't get
anything you know for that you know
there were situationally that I said so
come say it joining the Marine Corps is
the greatest job or anything but if if
that's the path you're committed to
there are people who are in those kinds
of structured situations where they
don't choose what they eat or they don't
chose that they don't choose the clothes
they wear or the shoes they wear where
that's out of their power they're not
making those decisions anymore but yeah
for my professors what's their excuse or
you know what's the reason why don't
they care enough about making some kind
of positive difference in the world if
they can when they can because you can
with veganism you can and it's
definitely stronger to be in a position
with veganism or any political movement
or ideology or it does not require
belief you know you don't have to
believe in anything to be vegan right
and it's it's stronger for that reason
you know look at the weakness and the
hopelessness by contrast of Buddhism
Buddhism is going nowhere in the 21st
century and veganism has grown
dramatically in 1020 years and I think
we all know it it has the power to do so
much more I think as persist because it
doesn't rest on faith it doesn't rely on
an appeal to belief so we can go further
and faster and make greater use of the
human resources we've got more reckless
optimism from about Lucille